In the previous lessons you've seen how to store
some values that will use in the vue js application
by defining them in data property.
We can then retrieve the values and display them in our template.
Now in other use case we might need to manipulate one
or some of values before render to the page. For example
we might have first name and last name defined in data
property then maybe we need to display full name
in our template. Here we can do that
by using string interpolation like this.
This is OK but it's limited only single expression.
If we need to show the full name in other places
then we might need to copy and paste that expression.
And this will produce repeated code in our app.
Now let's say we also need to show the full name
in uppercase and add a space between characters.
Here we can do that like this. Or we
can do it more simpler just like this.
But once again this will make our
template messy and not declarative
It doesn't really describe what we were trying to do.
So you have to consider that your views or templates
should only be concerned with displaying data.
If you find that a piece of data needs a bit of
computation before it's rendered to the page
then you have two alternatives.
The first one is to apply the logic in methods property.
So from the previous example we can define let's say
full name upper with space and place the of logic
in it.
Then in your template you can call full
name upper with space parentheses.
The second one is to place the logic in computed property. Computed properties are defined in the computed
property of vue option.
And in here you you define the same function as before
but now in your template you can call the computed
property just like this
full name upper with space
just like property that you define in data property.
You don't need parentheses when calling computed
property and vue js will automatically invokes the
function behind the scene. Besides that a
computed party has a following features
First the computation will be cached
that means the function will not rerun if not necessary.
It's prevent useless computation. The second it will only
automatically update as needed when dependent
properties inside the function has changed.
So that's about a brief intro about computed
properties. The computer properties
basically are data in vue instance or vue components
that depends on some calculation on other
data.
All right let's see an action.